.. -*- mode: rst; coding: utf-8; ispell-local-dictionary: "british" -*-
..
.. This file is part of JuliaBase, the samples database.
..
.. Copyright © 2008–2014 Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany,
..                       Marvin Goblet <m.goblet@fz-juelich.de>,
..                       Torsten Bronger <t.bronger@fz-juelich.de>
..
.. You must not use, install, pass on, offer, sell, analyse, modify, or
.. distribute this software without explicit permission of the copyright
.. holder.  If you have received a copy of this software without the explicit
.. permission of the copyright holder, you must destroy it immediately and
.. completely.

==================
Settings reference
==================


General JuliaBase settings
============================


ADD_SAMPLE_VIEW
---------------

Default: ``""`` (Empty string)

Name of the view in Python's dot notation which points to the view to add
samples.  For example::

    ADD_SAMPLE_VIEW = "jb_institute.views.samples.sample.add"

This view function must have exactly one parameter, namely the ``request``
instance.


CACHE_ROOT
----------

Default: ``"/tmp/juliabase_cache"``

The path where dispensable (in the sense of re-creatable) files are stored.
JuliaBase mostly uses this directory to store images, e.g. plot files.  If the
path doesn't exist when the JuliaBase service is started, it is created.  The
default value should be changed to e.g. ``"/var/cache/juliabase"``.  Note that
such a path needs to be created by you because Juliabase doesn't have the
necessary permissions.  ALso note that such a path needs to be writable by the
webserver process JuliaBase is running on.


CRAWLER_LOGS_ROOT
-----------------

Default: ``""`` (Empty string)

Path to the crawlers' log files.  In this directory, the log file for a
particular process class is called :file:`{class_name}.log`.  Mind the
spelling: ``MyProcessClassName`` becomes :file:`my_process_class_name.log`.


CRAWLER_LOGS_WHITELIST
----------------------

Default: ``()`` (Empty tuple)

List of process classes for which the crawler log is public, i.e. not
restricted to users that are allowed to add new processes of that kind.


DEBUG_EMAIL_REDIRECT_USERNAME
-------------------------------------------

Default: ``""`` (Empty string)

Username of a user to which all outgoing email should be sent if the Django
setting ``DEBUG=True``.  If this name is invalid, in particular if it is empty,
no emails are sent at all in debugging mode.  This prevents embarrassment
caused by emails sent to other people while merely debugging your code.


.. _INITIALS_FORMATS:

INITIALS_FORMATS
----------------

Default::

    INITIALS_FORMATS = \
        {"user": {"pattern": r"[A-Z]{2,4}|[A-Z]{2,3}\d|[A-Z]{2}\d{2}",
                  "description": _("The initials start with two uppercase letters.  "
                                   "They contain uppercase letters and digits only.  "
                                   "Digits are at the end.")},
         "external contact": {
                  "pattern": r"[A-Z]{4}|[A-Z]{3}\d|[A-Z]{2}\d{2}",
                  "description": _("The initials start with two uppercase letters.  "
                                   "They contain uppercase letters and digits only.  "
                                   "Digits are at the end.  "
                                   "The length is exactly 4 characters.")}
         }

This maps the kind of initials to their properties.  It must contain exactly
the two keys ``"user"`` and ``"external contact"``.  See :ref:`Initials` for
more information.


JAVASCRIPT_I18N_APPS
---------------------------

Default: ``("django.contrib.auth", "samples", "jb_common")``

Tuple containing all apps which contain translations that should be used in
JavaScript code.  The apps are named as in the Django setting
``INSTALLED_APPS``.  See the `Django documentation
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#internationalization-in-javascript-code>`_
for further information.


MAP_DEPARTMENTS_TO_APP_LABELS
-----------------------------

Default: ``{}`` (Empty dict)

Dictionary mapping department names to Django app names.  In some places,
JuliaBase needs to retrieve the app name using this dictionary.  It must
contain all departments that are in the database.


MERGE_CLEANUP_FUNCTION
----------------------

Default: ``""`` (Empty string)

Name of the view in Python's dot notation which points to a function which is
called after each sample merge.  This function must take exactly two
parameters, the sample that is merged and the sample that this sample is merged
into.  It is possible to leave this settings empty; then, nothing special is
called.


NAME_PREFIX_TEMPLATES
---------------------

Default: ``()`` (Empty tuple)

List of string templates that define possible sample name prefixes.  See
:doc:`sample_names` for more information.


PHYSICAL_PROCESS_BLACKLIST
--------------------------

Default: ``()`` (Empty tuple)

This lists all physical process classes which should not appear in the status
messages tables.  Every entry itself is a tuple containing the app name and the
process class, in all-lowercase::

    PHYSICAL_PROCESS_BLACKLIST = [("jb_institute", "substrate"),
                                  ("jb_institute", "layerthicknessmeasurement")]


SAMPLE_NAME_FORMATS
-------------------

Default::

    SAMPLE_NAME_FORMATS = {"provisional": {"possible renames": {"default"}},
                           "default":     {"pattern": r"[-A-Za-z_/0-9#()]*"}}

This setting defines which sample names are allowed in your database.  It maps
the names of the formats to their properties.  See :doc:`sample_names` for more
information.


TESTING
----------

Default: ``True`` if testing, ``False`` otherwise

If this setting is ``True``, we are currently testing JuliaBase, i.e. it was
started with::

    ./manage.py test {app_name}

This setting is deprecated and will be removed in the future.  Do not use it in
your own code.


THUMBNAIL_WIDTH
---------------

Default: ``400``

This number represents the width in pixels of the thumbnails of plots and
images that are generated for the sample data sheet.


USE_X_SENDFILE
--------------------

Default: ``False``

If ``True``, JuliaBase assumes that the web server is interpreting the
``X-Sendfile`` header and serves a static file (e.g. an image) itself.
Otherwise, JuliaBase serves the file, which may be slower and more
time-consuming.  In most cases, it doesn't matter, though.


Settings for LDAP
===================

ADDITIONAL_LDAP_USERS
------------------------------

Default: ``{}`` (Empty dict)

Distionary mapping user names to JuliaBase department names.  This contains
users that are in the LDAP directory but are not in one of the departments
listed in the setting `AD_LDAP_DEPARTMENTS`_ explained below.  The use case is
that some people working in the organization but not in the department(s) may
still be eligible for database access.  By putting them in
``ADDITIONAL_LDAP_USERS``, they are allowed to login.  They are associated with
the department they are mapped to.


AD_LDAP_ACCOUNT_FILTER
--------------------------------

Default: ``"(!(userAccountControl:1.2.840.113556.1.4.803:=2))"``

LDAP filter for filtering LDAP members that are eligible for JuliaBase access.
The default filter finds any member which is not inactive.  The default value
works well for Active Directory domain controlers.


AD_LDAP_DEPARTMENTS
-----------------------------

Default: ``{}`` (Empty dict)

Dictionary mapping LDAP department names to JuliaBase department names.  If
your LDAP directory data sets contain the "department" attribute, this setting
determines which department get access to chantal.  If this setting is empty,
all LDAP members get access.

If the LDAP doesn't contain the "department" attribute, this setting should be
empty.


AD_LDAP_URLS
------------------

Default: ``()`` (Empty tuple)

List of URLs of LDAP directories.  If you want to use LDAP, this must contain
at least one URL.  It may contain more if there are multiple redundent LDAP
servers.  In this case, JuliaBase will try each of them until it finds a
working one.  An example value may be::

    AD_LDAP_URLS = ["ldaps://dc-e01.ad.mycompany.com:636"]

Here, 636 is the port number of LDAP-over-TLS.


AD_SEARCH_DN
------------------

Default: ``""`` (Empty string)

The “distinguished name” (DN) which should be used as the base of the search
for user details in the LDAP directory.  It is typically something like::

    AD_SEARCH_DN = "DC=ad,DC=mycompany,DC=com"


AD_USERNAME_TEMPLATE
-----------------------

Default: ``"{username}"``

This pattern is used to bind to (a.k.a. login into) the LDAP server.  JuliaBase
uses this binding only to check whether the user's credentials (login,
password) are valid.  ``{username}`` is replaced by the username of the user
that tries to login into JuliaBase.  A typical value for this setting is

::

   AD_USERNAME_TEMPLATE = "{username}@mycompany.com"


LDAP_ADDITIONAL_ATTRIBUTES
--------------------------

Default: ``()`` (Empty tuple)

JuliaBase limits the attributes it receives for every user to a certain subset,
e.g. the user's real name and their department.  If your code needs additional
LDAP attributes, put their names into this tuple.  Note that its members must
be byte strings.  An example might be::

    LDAP_ADDITIONAL_ATTRIBUTES = (b"telephoneNumber", b"msExchUserCulture",
                                  b"physicalDeliveryOfficeName")


PERMISSIONS_OF_AD_GROUPS
-----------------------------------

Default: ``{}`` (Empty dict)

Dictionary mapping LDAP group names to sets of Django permission names.  Use
the Django ``codename`` of the permission, without any app label.  An example
might be::

    PERMISSIONS_OF_AD_GROUPS = {
            "TG_IEF-5_teamleaders": {"view_all_samples", "adopt_samples",
                                     "edit_permissions_for_all_physical_processes",
                                     "add_external_operator",
                                     "view_all_external_operators", "can_edit_all_topics"}
        }

Note that you should not change permissions in JuliaBase's admin interface that
occur in ``PERMISSIONS_OF_AD_GROUPS``.  They will be overwritten during the
next synchronization with the LDAP directory (in particular, at next user
login).  Consider these permissions being managed exclusively automatically.


Django settings with special meaning in JuliaBase
=====================================================

Note that JuliaBase does not change the meaning or the default value of Django
settings.

LANGUAGES
---------

This settings determines which flags to offer at the top of the screen.  Since
JuliaBase is available in English and German so far, a sensible value may be::

    LANGUAGES = (("de", _("German")), ("en", _("English")))

Note that the ``_(...)`` makes the language names themselves translatable.  To
get this working, you must import ``ugettext_lazy`` into :file:`settings.py`::

    from django.utils.translation import ugettext_lazy as _


CACHES
------

JuliaBase makes heavy use of Django's cache framework.  Thus, we recommend to
configure an efficient caching backend like memcache::

    CACHES = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache",
            "LOCATION": ["localhost"],
            "TIMEOUT": 3600 * 24 * 28
            }
        }


DEBUG
-----

JuliaBase behaves slightly differently if ``DEBUG=True``.  In particular, all
outgoing emails are redirected to `DEBUG_EMAIL_REDIRECT_USERNAME`_.


DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL
------------------

JuliaBase uses this Django setting also for its own outgoing emails.


INSTALLED_APPS
--------------

The minimal set of installed apps for JuliaBase is::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        "django.contrib.auth",
        "django.contrib.contenttypes",
        "django.contrib.sessions",
        "django.contrib.admin",
        "django.contrib.messages",
        "django.contrib.staticfiles",
        "jb_institute",
        "samples",
        "jb_common"
    )

Of course, you must replace ``j_institute`` by your own institute's app.
Furthermore, you may add as many apps as you like, as long as the inner order
is preserved.


LOGIN_URL
---------

The default URL configuration of JuliaBase puts the login view so that you
should say::

    LOGIN_URL = "/login"


LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL
------------------

JuliaBase assumes that this setting contains the home page of the database
application.  It is used in the default templates if you click on the
“JuliaBase” name on the top.  You may simply set it to ``"/"``.


MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES
------------------

The following is a minimal set of middelware JuliaBase is working with::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        "django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware",
        "django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware",
        "jb_common.middleware.MessageMiddleware",
        "django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware",
        "django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware",
        "jb_common.middleware.LocaleMiddleware",
        "samples.middleware.juliabase.ExceptionsMiddleware",
    )

Note that while you may add further middleware, you must not change the inner
ordering of extisting middleware.


TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS
---------------------------

Make sure that you add ``"jb_common.context_processors.default"`` to the list
of context processors.


TEMPLATE_DIRS
-------------

So that your can override JuliaBase's templates with own templates, you should
set::

    TEMPLATE_DIRS = (os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)),)

You may add further paths, but this one must be present.  It adds the directory
in which :file:`settings.py` resides in to the template search path.  You can
then extend Juliabase templates by beginning your template with e.g.

::

    {% extends "juliabase/samples/templates/samples/list_claims.html" %}


TEMPLATE_LOADERS
----------------

In conjunction with `TEMPLATE_DIRS`_ you must make sure that Django will look
for templates first in the app directories, and then in the filesystem.  With
activated template caching, this looks like::

    TEMPLATE_LOADERS = (
        ("django.template.loaders.cached.Loader",
         ("django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader",
          "django.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader")),)

and without caching, like::

    TEMPLATE_LOADERS = ("django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader",
                        "django.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader")
